Dax, have you seen me get all upset on the internet in the last few days?
Which time?
Which one of the times?
Just overall, just as a package, has my persona on the internet seemed a little bothered?
Yes.
I think you've been obsessed.
I think there's a lot of stuff pent up inside of you about Purcell, about Next.
JS.
I think it's coming out in all sorts of ways, so let's just get it all out in this episode
and then it will feel better.
I will feel so much better.
This is honestly going to be therapy for me.
This is going to be Dax saying things that make me feel better.
I think it started with April 1st, I did an April Fool's joke, and it was good fun making
fun of Purcell.
Just overall making fun of lots of things that are not really bothersome to me, but just
like little annoyances, like their vibe, their pretentiousness, the making, front-end
hosting sound like, I don't know, it's really, really important.
I was sort of like just I'm annoyed, I'm a little annoyed, but then I think it's drifted
into some darker places where I think I'm bothered by individuals and what I feel like
is the deployment of $300 million in capital to like brainwash the entire web dev community.
Did I say this is going to be therapy, I don't know, this is turning into me just getting
more upset.
We'll start there and we'll see where we end.
Okay.
And I'm really, and this is the second pocket episode we've done where it's like about how
we've had fights on the internet or something, or we're upset with people.
We just, we're just hostile, we just need to calm down.
Yeah, no, I do feel like I need to walk it back a bit.
I don't want to be somebody who comes off as blindly hating something because I know like
anytime something's really popular, like Apple, you just got a whole group of people that
hate Apple because other people love it.
So when people love something, there's always people who hate it and I don't want, I don't
want to just look like another Vercel Hater because I'm not.
I love Vercel, I use it all the time.
I use it for, mostly for projects where I know it's never going to grow.
It's like I need a personal website, so I want to put it on Vercel or I need, I'm doing
some dumb project just to show off some technology or something and I don't expect it to like
actually have traffic.
In those cases, Vercel is great and I see the advantages, the trade-offs where I can
think about less, I can just put it up there.
It's very serverless in that way, like not serverless from like a runtime perspective,
but serverless from like a, I don't want to deal with these things.
Someone deal with it for me.
But I just feel like the, the reason I'm so bothered I think is that I feel like the whole
vibe right now, the whole narrative in the web dev space, especially on Twitter is like,
AWS is too complicated for you.
You need Vercel to save you.
I'm so thankful for Vercel to like saved us all from the horrors of AWS.
That's what I feel like the vibe is turned into and it just seems so ridiculous to me.
And also it bothers me that Vercel is like lauded for being so cheap and AWS is universally
hated for being so expensive.
And this is the dumbest thing in the world because it's completely opposite.
Okay.
I said a lot of words.
Yeah.
So let's kind of break some of that down.
I think to start with any technology with anything, there's like the perpetual haters group that
like whenever it comes up or whenever something kind of bad about it happens, the perpetual
haters come out and just repeat all the same stuff.
And it's just, it's just like, you know, a thing you generally should just ignore.
I think you're concerned that you're coming off that way, but that's not the category
you're in because you actually use it and you genuinely like it and you're a fan.
But just because you're a fan doesn't mean you can be also really critical about it.
And I think my relationship with AWS is exactly that, right?
I deploy everything in AWS.
I spend a lot of time helping others deploy AWS.
I spend a lot of time teaching people how to do it and explaining people why they should
even try it.
But no one is no one is a bigger critic of AWS than me, right?
So just to like say that out there, you can like something and you can also come across
as like hating it at times because, you know, things are complex, things are nuanced.
So that's kind of what we're trying to get to here.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
No, perfect sense.
Two things can be true and live in your head at the same time.
Like I don't come out publicly and talk about hating AWS because like, that's the popular
thing to do.
Like, there's a lot of things I hate about AWS.
I'm an AWS hero and there's things that just drive me crazy.
But I don't really feel like I need to voice that because I feel like it's well covered.
And maybe the Vercel hatred is well covered, but I do think like I don't hate Vercel and
I don't think I'm coming from that place of just blindly criticizing something for the
sake of it.
Like, I genuinely feel like there are people building startups today and they think they're
making good choices because of the general narrative right now.
And they're going to end up in painful places down the road, I think.
And I think that's the other thing, this week I discovered that nine years ago I built a
startup that is still alive today and is actually kind of it's successful.
And I don't think I attributed that to like, I am a successful startup founder.
So I've never felt like I had anything to offer the conversation.
And then I just woke up this week and I realized like, I can say things, okay, because people
use my thing.
Yeah, it's funny because I had the same realization about you this week.
It's like so obvious, like it's kind of dumb to even say is out loud, but yeah, you don't
lean on your credibility too much, but you actually do have a lot to sit on.
And what's interesting about this conversation is just to summarize what is a little frustrating.
It's that this is a good product, results product is good, but there is, it's gotten
to a place where there's this narrative of you need to use it for literally everything.
And it is the best choice.
And if you don't use it for literally everything, you're like, you're making a bad choice or
like, there's nothing that it can't do well, right?
It's like unfalable.
Yeah.
Nobody else in software engineering is pushing the bar at all.
This is a pinnacle of software engineering is all there.
Everything Vercel does is all there is a software engineering.
It's kind of this kind of vibe.
And it's all coming from, most of this is coming from people that just have not had a
lot of experience, right?
Lily, anyone with experience does not feel that way.
And I think that's what's missing from the conversation.
It's the joke I made today was, Hey, like everyone just talking about this stuff.
It doesn't seem like any of you have products that people actually use.
Let's try to hear from people that have products that people actually use.
And yeah, I think you should sit on that a little bit more because that's just what it
is completely missing from from the conversation.
Yeah.
No, I think I just don't know enough of the cases where startups have scaled with Vercel
and stuck with Vercel and it worked out.
And I think when I started hearing those, at least there could be a dialogue.
Like I just don't know who I'm even like having a dialogue with because I feel like everyone
who uses Vercel and so blindly recommends it doesn't have that experience.
Like you're saying, I don't know.
And I guess that bothers me.
I guess I start getting angry.
I don't need to be angry about it.
I do.
I don't want to like just have an emotional reaction and just like, I think that's the
wrong kind of criticism that I'm not looking for.
But I do want to look at it more objectively and yeah, not feel like I'm living in the
past because I don't use herself for everything.
Like that's kind of what you said, the narrative kind of dig into some of that.
So when you say it doesn't, if you're building a startup, it doesn't make sense for you to
just build everything on Vercel.
What are some of the reasons that that stick out to you and what are some of the problems
that you think people will run into?
Yeah.
So I think the main thing is if you're building with Next.js on Vercel, the amount of like,
and I hate the term locked in, but the amount of things you're going to run into if you
ever try to move off of Vercel for a variety of reasons, you might be like pricing or whatever,
you might need to move off for sell.
That integration between Next.js and Vercel is very tight and it should be.
It's a great business model.
It makes sense.
I think that's one of the problems though, is that startups might lean on a lot of Next.js
features and also just feeling like that whole world of Vercel and Next.js is so front-end
dominant and it feels like front-end engineers, what they think the whole app looks like.
And it's all synchronous HTTP requests from the browser.
And if your whole backend can be represented that way, great, but I've not built anything
where the whole backend can be represented in that way.
So I guess it seems pretty clear to me you're going to immediately start needing to jump
out of Vercel because you need a queue or you need whatever.
I guess they have cron jobs now, something like cron jobs maybe.
But even things like that weren't supported even weeks ago.
So it's like, I don't know, there's a lot more to building applications than just building
a front-end and having some API routes.
And I do think that whole like picture of full stack web development is being painted
by front-end engineers right now, I just don't think it's doing a good service to developers
who are new and maybe do want to learn full stack and they don't go any further than that.
So that's one, I mean, one thing is just like architecturally not encouraging people to
dive a little deeper, to go a little deeper and say, what are the things that make up
an application?
I see this honestly all the time on Twitter with friends who are in the kind of the indie
hacking crowd and they immediately hit a use case where like, I need something, I don't
even know how to articulate it and I don't want to use AWS because it sucks.
Now everybody's in there if I'm talking about it.
I love rocks, like rocks is great.
But like he builds a new app like every other day that's like, he's building stuff that's
complicated.
Like he needs to queue up big background jobs working on media and doing this stuff, he's
trying to create tools for creators and I think you immediately run into cases where
it's not a good fit for Vercel or if it is, if you are going to use Vercel, just use it
for your front end, but then you're having to deal with the like gluing together Vercel
and your actual back end and that gets painful, just the shuffling around of environment variables
and whatever.
So there's all those things in terms of like it just not being very deep to pretty shallow
view of the world in terms of full stack dev.
And there's like pricing, I mean, like it's funny to me that people think Vercel is so
cheap.
It is, it's free when nobody uses your app, like it is free.
And that's the case for a lot of things, like the free tiers are generous.
That's great.
And again, I love Vercel.
I use it all the time.
It's a great product.
But if you start to scale, that free turns into pretty expensive, pretty fast and a lot
of it's pretty, it's pretty opaque.
So the enterprise pricing is just a completely black box.
You can kind of like start to figure out if you didn't go to enterprise, you know, what
would it cost to build your thing at levels of scale.
And it gets pretty expensive.
I mean, it's not, it's not cheap.
It's a big mark up on top of something like AWS.
And I feel like you could just spend some time as an engineer, even just a month and
learn some things, especially with some of the developer experience stuff with SST and
other sort of infrastructure code frameworks, you could invest in yourself a little bit and
have this ability to build out anything you can dream up and really like not be terrified
of hitting the bandwidth, you know, free tier limits or getting DDoSed as we've seen on Twitter
last couple of days.
Okay.
Now I'm saying a lot that I don't know there's even context for.
So I'd need you to stop me, Dax.
No, that's, that's like kind of dig into that last one.
So because it's a topic I've been thinking about a lot too, right?
So what you said was you can just spend a month and invest in yourself and then learn some
of these skills.
That's the thing that to me is the root frustration.
It's, I'm all in on managed services.
When I teach people about serverless and try to get people to serverless, that's my pitch.
My pitch is don't worry about lock in offload work.
That's not differentiated other people, right?
So that is a key part of my pitch.
But I think people conflate that with I never have to learn anything.
Like, if I'm not, if I had to learn something, that means I'm doing something wrong.
But there's a difference between offloading and ongoing costs that you have to pay every
single day and a one time cost.
Learning a skill, learning a framework, learning parts of AWS is a one time cost.
I'm not, I'm not saying it's easy.
It is challenging.
AWS sucks and there's like a thousand ways to do things and it's hard to know what the
right way is.
Yep.
There are pads to doing that now, like, you know, with the work that we're doing with
SST and all these other things.
There is a way to get through that in, let's say, a week in a month, whatever.
You pay that cost once, but you do that once.
You never have to deal with some certain things ever again.
You're never like, oh man, someone just used my product, you know, a hundred times more
than I expected them to use it.
Like, how do I queue up by work or how do I, you know, run this, I'm going to say you
just have tools for all of that.
You never have to pay this price again, right?
I think people are starting to avoid these one time costs, whether it's learning AWS or
like even like learning SQL, I'm starting to see people argue against like, oh, you shouldn't
learn SQL, that's a waste of time, like just build on top of these abstractions.
This is a one time cost, just learn SQL and I use chat TPT to learn it.
It's like super easy and chat TPT, you can even write a lot of it for you, but it helps
you understand how some of these things work at a lower level and a key part.
And I think people miss this.
People forget that this whole managed services thing, this whole like offload your work thing,
that philosophy as much like criticized AWS that did come out of AWS and a key part of that
philosophy is yes, offload stuff to your vendor, but deeply understand how your vendor works
so that when you build things, you can kind of build in sync with them, right?
Yeah.
And this comes from like that, the whole like title manufacturing thing like this gets cited
a lot.
So I don't want to repeat it over and over, but their key insight was I'm not afraid of
my vendor.
I'm going to offload their undifferentiated work to my vendor, but I'm going to go visit
my vendor's warehouse.
I'm not understanding how they build all this stuff.
I'm not understanding how this all works so that that influences my own process.
I think with a lot of this stuff, it's kind of just throw over the wall to whoever and
it's just magically work.
And you're kind of seeing the issues with that where this Cal.com issue is a great one.
So Cal.com.
One of the few companies that's using this like next year's for everything deployed over
sell stack that's doing incredibly well, they're doing really well as a business.
They're growing great.
They hit a pretty fatal issue because they just kind of build their application without
really thinking about how serverless works, how Bursal works, and they're hitting severe
cold start issues and their application is like very slow, they're losing users because
of it.
And because of this mindset of I shouldn't have to know anything, we're just throw it
over the wall and I'm expecting Bursal to figure everything out.
Bursal can only do so much.
They have like grand engineers, they can only do so much.
They still need you to understand how their stuff works so you can build in coordination
with them.
So yeah, it's kind of one of the mindsets around all this stuff that I think is it's
like close to right, like yes, trust your vendors and help let them help you build stuff.
But no, like learning stuff isn't like a thing that goes away.
You still need to need to understand all of these things.
Yeah, as you're saying all that, I'm realizing like there is sort of a conflict for me and
I haven't really thought through it and I could use your help where I feel like my arguments
against Bursal or against like, and maybe we're saying the same thing.
Maybe it's not such a conflict.
But it's like, I am such a fan of managed services and specifically using a lot of different
AWS higher level primitives that abstract away stuff and I don't have to think about.
I don't like SSHing into servers.
Like I like serverless compute functions as service, whatever.
I like managed APIs that just give me all these cool features.
What is the difference?
I guess, am I a hypocrite that I'm saying, Bursal, like it's less, I don't know, I guess I'm
saying I like using Bursal.
I like offloading front end deployments to Bursal at times, but I wouldn't consider
using it like for Satmuse where we have a ton of traffic and I just don't feel like
it's justified to spin that premium for their CDN when I can use a cheaper CDN.
Is that me kind of going against my philosophy of like, take advantage of managed stuff?
No, I don't think so and the way I think about this is I tell people you're probably
irrationally afraid of vendor lock in, but that doesn't mean blindly accept all vendors.
It means try to understand if you and your vendor are aligned.
Like are the problems that you're going to have, like do they want to solve them?
Is it direction they're going in to stuff they're interested in, like is that aligned
with the stuff that you're interested in?
So I think that's kind of what you have to understand a little bit.
I think with something like Bursal, it's, you do have to understand a little bit about
the company and the technicals and even the business, right?
You need to understand that Hey, Bursal is built on top of AWS.
They're going to be constrained by all kinds of AWS stuff as well.
They need to make a margin on top of AWS.
They do mix in Cloudflare a bit here and there that's helpful to know.
It's also helpful to know they raise a lot of money at a crazy valuation during a time
where evaluations were really out of control.
You need to know that, okay, they haven't yet justified that.
You need to know they're not profitable.
These things factor into whether you really like tie yourself to a vendor or not.
I know with AWS, it doesn't matter what's happening with the economy.
It does not matter anything.
Anything on the planet pretty much could be happening and I know they'll still be around
to handle my traffic, right?
There's like no, the fundamental business model works.
So I'm not really worried about them too much.
Like whatever scale I have, whether it's smaller big, it's going to be fine.
I know they can refund me because it's not, you know, if I make a mistake and I spend a
lot of money, you know, it's a blip for them.
They understand what my spend is and they know what mistake is and they're very forgiving
with that.
It's a lot more challenging for a company that, you know, needs to meet certain sales targets.
Like just evaluate their valuation so you can continue to raise money.
You know, it's, you need to think deeper about your vendor than just they have good branding
and I like their vibe, right?
Yeah.
But you're not a hypocrite.
It's more involved.
So I'm realizing, I guess this episode is just like the Vercel episode.
And I feel like there are other things to talk about with Vercel that it like very recently
have happened.
Well, I don't know.
We're not reporters.
And like the thing with the support, well, I guess yeah.
I guess.
I don't know.
The thing with the support issue, I don't know how much Steven it's not like that damning.
Like it happens.
They had an issue, somebody was, they ran up a big bill, some kind of billing issue maybe
on Vercel side.
I'm not sure.
They said they wouldn't refund it then the person took it to Twitter kind of blew up
and they did refund it after that.
I don't know.
That kind of stuff happens probably.
You learn from it as an organization.
And this is kind of the same thing I was saying earlier.
It's, you know, you have to understand where they are in the life cycle or their business.
When you start a startup, you have fantastic support because that's all you can offer.
When you start to scale, that just goes away.
Like it's just, it's just hard for you to retain that, especially when you're trying
to figure out your unit economics, especially when you're trying to figure out your business
model.
You just support is just the last thing that you're going to spend money on, right?
You have so many seemingly bigger problems.
So if you're going to use a company that's in this like growth phase, you're going to
have to accept that, hey, the support is going to be bad.
Sometimes they're going to like make a decision that doesn't make any sense.
I'm going to have to go blow it up on some social media.
It's just a reality.
It's not, I don't even fault yourself for this, like every business just kind of goes
through this.
If you really care about support, you need to go to a company that's much more established
that has all that figured out.
So I think those were some of the issues that happened this week.
I think it's something that like the perpetual serverless haters came out being like, this
is why you shouldn't use serverless.
You can run up a blah, blah, blah.
It is like a thing that happens and it almost always gets resolved.
That said, it did attract a lot more people to come out of the woodwork.
I think that's what was interesting a little bit in the past week.
I think we hear a lot from people that are using Burssel in the free tier.
We don't often hear people from people that are like paying those big enterprise bills.
And I think we heard a lot more from them being like, hey, I got, there's another threat
I got that they got charged $22,000 and that's still unresolved.
I think people were realizing the only way to get attention is to blow it up on Twitter.
Yeah.
So tough week for Burssel, like all that stuff coming out, there's a lot more attention
and scrutiny on them.
And one of the other things that I've been thinking about, and we've talked about this
a bunch because we kind of saw it happening, you know, with them acquiring more and more
of the React team that just draws attention in ways where like, you know, now people are
looking at it like, this is, this is good, like, this is good for us.
This is a bad thing.
Are they taking it over?
Are there incentives aligned?
So I think whatever benefit they got from having those people on the team, is that going,
is like the scrutiny worth it?
You know, I think a lot more people pay attention to a lot more people are eager to say like,
this is bad, right?
So I think we've, in the last week, we've kind of hit a tipping point with a bunch of
things coming together and there's been a lot and a lot of talk around, hey, like this
is a problem.
They're like, don't use this platform, et cetera.
And the React thing, I should note, like, I think a lot of my problems with Purcell are
amplified by how I feel about React right now, which I do feel like it's really interesting
that the two seem to be merging, that they're hiring all these React core members.
And that it's just more and more React is like pointing to next JS, next JS is pointing
to React, like that, that's the best way to build React apps is not next JS, it takes
advantage of all the features.
So then I sort of like lump in all of my feelings about the people in the React community and
the figureheads and just like, I don't know, the ivory tower stuff.
It's been, I'm not the first person to point this out, I don't know, it's just the whole
vibrant React bothers me right now.
And it's hard for me not to take that on in Purcell as well.
Yeah, I mean, I think that that is like another thing to this.
Like while all this is happening, React feels like it's losing touch with the real problems
people face.
You know, you shouldn't need a 10 message thread constantly to be like, no, this is
actually good.
Like if you are smart enough, you'd understand this is actually good.
And it's kind of vibe they give off.
I know it's not the intention, but a lot of stuff is coming off this way of like, like
we are, again, is like, you started off with saying like Purcell's branding is kind of
this pretentious Apple branding, which can work really well if you can like really back
it up with like, hell yeah, we're like a thousand times better than literally everyone else.
Like Apple can back it up that way.
It's a little bit harder when you're a platform optimized for e-commerce websites, right?
Like it's, it's like, it's off.
Similarly with the React stuff, it also feels a little pretentious like we really understand
all this really complex stuff and we're gifting you the gift of reaction.
You are smart enough.
You will appreciate it.
That is exactly your putting words exactly into the feeling I have, which I'd never been
able to articulate.
Yeah.
And I don't feel like I'm that dumb.
I'm not, I don't think I'm the smartest guy, but I feel like if I still struggle with stuff
after like eight years of writing React, maybe it's React's fault.
Maybe it's not my fault and I'm tired of feeling like it's my fault.
I feel like I spend most of my time writing React code and when something goes wrong, it's
like, ah, that's me.
I did that.
Oops.
But like, maybe it's not.
Maybe it's React.
Yeah.
We have, I think there are really great React code bases from people that are very, very
good, but I think the average React code base is actually really bad.
Uh, I think you saw that thing I posted on Twitter with a screenshot of this code base.
Okay.
This was not an average code.
It's definitely like way, way, way, way below average.
Uh, and I was just posting because I thought it was funny, like, look at how bad this is
and a bunch of people are in the replies were like, this isn't React's fault.
Like don't say it's a React's fault.
Like that Coke and I'm like, yeah, I wasn't saying it was React's fault.
I was just saying that this isn't this crazy.
Like, look at it.
It's funny.
It's this like weird thing where it just starts to feel like a cult and everyone's rushing
to defend it.
And like, how dare you say anything even like, you know, it's just one thing to get to that
stage.
It's, it's kind of done.
Like, yeah, you're just going to start losing people and, uh, the thing I think about a
lot is, uh, I've been thinking a lot about Astro and how they're like the anti-versal
in so many ways.
The vibe is completely opposite.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Right.
Their stuff.
Great framework.
Just so fun to use.
So simple.
Everyone just loves it.
So it deploys anywhere, literally deploys anywhere and works pretty much the same everywhere.
It works super well everywhere.
And as someone that built an adapter for it to deploy AWS, very, very easy to build
an adapter for it.
And I'm sure as I get more features, it's going to get a little more complicated, but
for now it's, it's excellent.
Their branding is like just fun and silly and like super approachable and like, Hey, we're
here to teach you to like, you know, build better websites and like it's so, it's just
clicking with me so much more than this like elitist thing where yeah, front end is goofy
and fun.
Like it's just like a kind of a mess, but we can kind of make it good and like we make
these funny websites like that.
That is how I feel about the front end side of things.
Um, and I feel like they're like nailing that really, really well.
And their business model is not built around hosting.
I think we, I think we've been through two generations of hosting on top of other providers.
Like we had the Heroku generation.
Now we had the Versal generation.
I think it's clear the hosting business sucks.
If you're not literally AWS, uh, you squeeze on all different sides and it's hard to make
a business work.
So I'm excited to see them do all this stuff, but monetize it without being a hosting business.
So I think they end up being quite a different company than, than for so.
I love this is my first experience with Astro.
That's what I'm drawn to is just how it fits so well into the modern landscape.
Like they've got first party adapters for everything, both on the hosting side and the
front end side, like you can plug anything into Astro and it all just feels really good.
And to your point, light hearted, it doesn't feel so heavy.
And like I'm being judged the moment I start using it.
But I now I have a question, like what, what is Astro's business model?
Yeah, I mean, so I think they have so many opportunities.
So I think for me, especially because you know, I build SST, I think about business models
around open source a lot.
Uh, I don't think a hosting business model is a good one.
I think that's probably the least creative thing you can do.
I think complimentary services are the best thing to do.
Like when people use your open source framework and deploy to production, there is just stuff
that they need that's complimentary, right?
It could be anything from, so I think right now they have, they're doing like a, like a
template marketplace.
So if you think about how big were presses and the whole like template marketplaces there,
if they get that big, that's going to be enough on its own could be anything from like, uh,
like a headless CRM so that you can manage your content, right?
So I think, yeah, the core is great, like it's helps you build websites, but you're always
going to need complimentary service, it might be analytics, it might be so you can just
see how like, yeah, okay, there's enough people using Astro websites and deploying it wherever
they want.
There's just so many complimentary services that Astro could eventually build.
I don't know.
I'm making some of those up.
I don't know what they're actually going to do.
Um, but I think that's a, you can get a lot more creative and like not, and your users aren't
going to feel like you're, you're trapping them, right?
Yeah.
You're like, you're tricking them into using this open source thing and then trapping them
in some way.
You're just like, use it however you want.
We built this really cool service that if you like it, you can use it.
If not, it's fine.
Go have a good day.
Right?
That makes sense.
Yeah.
We're, we're rebuilding stat music Astro and I'm, I'm a big fan as you know.
Exactly.
It's just, uh, yeah, it's a weird time.
Um, I'm really excited to see how all this stuff plays out.
Uh, like I said, you just need to, when you pick a vendor, you just need to really understand
everything about them.
Um, it's going to be interesting to see if Vercel struggles so, cause like if you look
at their business, it's actually fine, like they have a massive, successful open source
project.
They have a pipeline to people deploying on their platform.
It's good.
The only issue here is their size and their valuation, cause the amount of money they raised
is now creating problems for them.
So it would be interesting to see if they fail only because they were able to raise a
ton of money.
Yeah.
And of course the other thing with like this money is leaking into places that just feel
off like I, it doesn't, they don't really feel like an open source company anymore to
me.
They feel like something else.
And I think people are picking up on that and that's just only going to grow in my opinion.
Yeah.
I know if you read the GitHub trail, like if you just get into GitHub issues, like there's
a lot of people that feel that way that they're like masquerading as the very open company.
Yeah.
I don't have a lot of strong personal conviction about that stuff.
Uh, but I mean, people want to feel like you're authentic.
And that, that's the thing I would say about Vercel, the vibe is not authentic to me, both
in how they like present at the top, but also the people who represent at, you know, dev
rail position.
It just feels very like robotic, not very like personable, I guess.
Now I feel like I'm just personally attacking and I don't want to do that.
No, it's not, it's not a personal attack.
It is like companies have cultures and you kind of set your culture and it shows up in
a lot of ways.
Uh, you know, you can definitely go for the elite culture, like we are elites and this
is our vibe.
Yeah.
And I'm not going to get into any details, but I talked to someone whose company was doing
integration with Vercel and they were working just with the product manager that works there.
They were like really verbally abused by this product manager, just like just going into
them, acting like they don't even deserve like a minute of their time.
Like just their ego was in a crazy place relative.
Like this, this private manager is talking to a founder of a company that's doing a partnership
with Vercel, right?
Yeah.
You can't be treating your partners that way, but this culture just leak into places, right?
If the, if your culture is a elite, a trade off is sometimes you're going to have people
come in and like get power hungry and have an overinflated self sense of worth.
And that's going to like, you know, bleed into your relationships with other companies.
So the type of culture you pick, uh, comes on the top and it just gets amplified every
level of that.
Like I'm sure like Guillermo is elite.
He is like an amazing engineer, everything, right?
He is.
And he like has by the humility and everything to like balance, feeling elite and also kind
of being, you know, a person that people don't hate.
But when that trickles down, that might, all those nuances and that balance might not actually
make it right.
So I think that's kind of what you're seeing with, with the company.
So I don't know if I feel better, uh, I'm going to be honest, uh, I feel like I need
to wrap this up somehow, uh, with a little bow on my personal stance, just, just for
sales, not for everything.
And I just don't like monocultures and I don't like feeling like everyone around me is saying
the same things.
And I just, I, I feel like my feelings are invalid.
I don't like that.
It makes me emotionally react, but at the same time I shouldn't emotionally react.
I shouldn't have taken it out in the ways that I've taken it out of ourselves.
So I'm sorry at the same time, everything I said, I still believe.
So I wasn't like lying when I said those things.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just, it's, you're not going to feel good about yourself because the environment
that is created, no one can really operate in a way that they're proud of, I think, on
any side.
So, uh, yeah, for me, the summary is just there is this vortex happening.
Be aware of it.
You're probably getting affected and pulled into it myself.
I am affected and being pulled into it, like with all the experience I have and the fact
that I don't even use this company or this product, I'm like questioning like everything
I do because of this massive vortex.
So just be aware of that.
Um, don't get trapped in it.
Like just good.
The thing is with all this stuff happening, the economy, the way it is, uh, like the technology
moving the pace that it, that it is, um, just build useful skills that you can just learn
once and have forever.
Um, it's more important now than ever to do that.
I think a lot of the monoculture you're talking about is a, is kind of the result is people
aren't going as deep as, as they should be, uh, me and you have experience doing all kinds
of things.
At this point, I think both of us are pretty secure in our ability to earn money.
The things that we're sitting on top of that allow us to do that are because we've went
deep in a bunch of different places where you're not going to, if you kind of get trapped
in this vortex, you're not going to make it there.
So that's where my frustration is, I think for you as well.
And yeah, that's kind of, if anyone takes away anything, it's probably going to be
fun.
I love it.
Thank you for, for that, Dax.
You're always good at actually putting coherent thoughts together after I just say a lot of
words.
You're, uh, oh yeah, it's a, it's a process.
Yeah.
Here that you say and that's like the schedule for what I do.
Uh, all right.
I think we're good here.
All right.
Cool.
See you.
See you, Dax.
Bye.